[Event "OTB Tournament Game 2-'Back with a Vengeance'"]
[Site "http://gameknot.com/"]
[Date "11/8/19"]
[Round "-"]
[White "Joe"]
[Black "Jack"]
[Result "0-1"]
[TimeControl "50/23"]

{After Jack's tournaments had ended, I thought that was it.  The previous
tournament ended on April 26th which I had won and was champion of.  Then,
we started a couple of games, but it appeared to be all over after June
21st.  At the time, the tournament was just between the students, and Jack
would, every now and then, analyze it.  But, Mariann, Perry, and Loyd left.
 So, we were left with just Tom, Carl, and me.  Then, Tom told Jack that
he would no longer compete in a tournament due to the games that he lost.
 Thus, there wasn't enough participation to continue, and I thought it
was over.  That upset me because everything that I was promised and thought
I was getting in, 'Reversion's Open Fire' tourney was actually happening
with Jack, especially, since I was playing with the clocks and real time
control.  However, Tom came back to play in a tournament, as I guess that
Jack and him worked something out.  But, then I had to work 2 Fridays which
prevented me from making it.  When, I came back on November 1st, the tournament
began.  And, I played Carl, but not surprisingly, the position became too
corrupt to annotate.  This often when we first do something like a tournament,
that I'm not used.  It might as well have been because I had an edge against
Carl and almost blew it.  So, my play wasn't very good and I moved too
fast.  I came very close to allowing a swindle with a draw by rep, until
I saw what I was doing and put a stop to it.  Thus, I won, but I feel that
I missed opportunities and should've won much sooner.  That's what also
happens to me during the adjustment period.  The big difference between
this tournament and previous tourneys is that it's not just between the
students.  As Jack, and even, Master Nathan Resika are participating in
this one.  So, I was against my coach and being his strength, he said that
I still get 50, which was to be expected.  And, as per his time, to make
it fair, he'd have 23 minutes as the handicap.  Now, I played extremely
well, which he noted.  But, I made a small miscalculation which costed
me the game.  By the time all was said and done he had a passed pawn, and
before promoting, he would've won on time.  As I was down to only 3 or
4 minutes against his remaining 7.  This is how it went down.} 1. e4 {So,
I start off with my usual.  But, I wasn't exactly sure how Jack would respond.
 Once in a while, he's responded with the Caro Kann and French, but his
main defenses are the Sicilian, and his next move.  Afterwhich, I knew
what he'd do and was prepared to play the Italian Opening.} e5 2. Nf3 Nc6
3. Bc4 Be7 {This is how he usually responds.  Now, I was thinking about
what I could do to create a threat by bringing my N to g5 which Jack showed,
in terms of what most players do.  And, in fact, upon walking away from
the Spanish Opening, that's what got me into the Guaco Piano.  But, before
I get into it, I decide to castle once and for all since I like to do these
things early.  The only time I hold off is when I see something better,
immediately, like winning a piece.  Or if someone has a threat against
me.} 4. O-O Nf6 {Developing, and I almost played 5.Ng5 immediately but
decided to continue developing.} 5. Nc3 d6 {But, this is where I go for
it.  As now, I'm interested in how Jack will respond to this.  At first,
I thought that he'd play 6...d5, with which, I'd be ready to exchange.
 But, like me, my teacher played it safe by castling.} 6. Ng5 O-O 7. b3
{I wasn't sure how to go about and didn't want to retreat.  In addition,
I didn't want to restrict my d3-g1 diagonal with 7.d3 as then, it's less
active since it covers less squares.  So, I thought that fianchettoing
was the way to go and am ready to retreat when Jack attacks.} h6 8. Nf3
Bg4 {Jack was just as prepared, but this pin means nothing to me, as I've
seen it before.  I'm ready to just go on the attack, and am prepared for
9...Bh5  In fact, it's what I call the equivalent to a conditional move
even though people don't use that term in OTB terms.  But, I was already
prepared to complete my fianchetto, upon his retreat since that's why I
played 7.b3, in the first place.} 9. h3 Bh5 10. Bb2 Nd4 {The only thing
that caught me off guard, for one second was this move.  It took me between
2-5 minutes to figure out what to do.  I looked at something like 11.Nxd4??,
but almost forgetting that I'm indirectly pinned, it didn't take much to
figure that this wouldn't work out.  I also looked at 10...Ne2, but with
2 attackers against only 1 defender, my Nf3 would be lost for only a pawn.
 And, of course, I was reluctant to play 11.g4 because I thought that it
would weaken.  But, after thinking more about it, I realized that this
was my only way out, and afterwards, even with a weakened K, things hold
out, quite well.} 11. g4 Bg6 12. Re1 {Not knowing what else to do, I felt
that this was the time to centralize one of my R's.  But, I believe that
12.Nh4 to prevent the exchange.  However, when he played 12...Nxf3+ I was
quite relived because I felt that he had eased my position by deciding
to exchange since his Nd4 is more active then my Nf3, in my opinion.} Nxf3+
13. Qxf3 a6 {Preventing 14.Nb5 or 14.Bb5, but what I do next is what I
was going to play, anyhow.} 14. Bd5 c6 {This was to be expected.} 15. Bc4
b5 {I don't see the point in Jack attacking again.  Although, it could
be from Glacoma, as maybe, he thought that this was the Noah's Ark, with
which my B would be trapped.  But, I have a couple of places to go, as
my next move will show.} 16. Bd3 Qd7 {Connecting his R's.  But, this gives
me time to centralize my other R and complete center control, of my own.}
17. Rad1 c5 {Preparing to attack my N or B, but I'm not afraid.} 18. Nd5
{Better might have been 18.Ne2.  I didn't want my N, and was, therefore,
trying to intimidate.  I was prepared for one exchange which was with his
next move.  But, this favors him because his N was more active.  So, if
that's so and I made the wrong judgement, it's because I moved a little
too quick here.  It was similar but not the same as Flip Coin Chess where
you don't think at all.  I did think but not nearly long enough.  And,
if I had studied this a little harder, I would've realized that my N also
could've gone to e2 and we'd avoid exchange.  And, after exchanging d5,
I was unprepared for my Bd3 being exchanged, as well.} Nxd5 19. exd5 Bxd3
20. Qxd3 b4 {Trying to create a backward pawn.} 21. c3 {But, it won't do.}
a5 {I don't know why Jack is trying to prove with this move.} 22. a4 {But,
I won't budge, as I keep in mind that capturing en-pessant would cause
him harm which was prepared for him to do.  For example, after 22...bxa3
e.p. 23.Bxa3 isn't just obvious, but after I play that, my Bb2 is more
active.  Not only that, but I can either do something with my c pawn or
with my Q.  That's why I was hoping that he'd take the bait.} Qd8 {But,
Jack doesn't budge either.} 23. c4 {So, I stop his other pawns, as I've
studied in other games.  The idea is that I have a pawn chain as powerful
as his, and it plays a role.  It's really about how useful they'll be later
on since ideas like this don't always work.} Bh4 {Meanwhile, Jack decides
to pin f2 which is also of no concern to me.  However, it should be because
he's the one swarming my K side instead.  And, there will be a threat,
on his upcoming move.} 24. Qf5 {As I'm now thinking about how to attack
his K side.  Don't forget that I'm still remembering how bhidragon won
when I went wrong which was starting to get his Q in action.  And, my idea
worked well against Carl, but it's about how well it'll work here.  As
Jack is about, the same strength as bhidragon.  I normally wouldn't do
something like this against him, but I also didn't know what else to play.
 It was one of those boaring moments for me, until I played this.  But,
as with the other game, I should've payed closer attention to what's going
on, the overall picture, as after 24...Qf6 I'm forced to exchange Q's which
is one of the last things that I wanted to do.  If I don't and move away,
24...Qxf2+ and not only has Jack won a pawn, but it's mate.  25.Kh1 Qh2#.
 } Qf6 25. Qxf6 Bxf6 26. Re2 {At this point, without knowing what else
to do, I have plans to double up my R's and make Jack think that pinning
again with 26...Bh4 when, in my opinion, it's just a waste of time.  In
other words, I tricked him into making, what I consider, unnecessary. 
For once he pins, that's when I'm ready to double up.} Bh4 27. Rde1 f5
{Trying to win my f2 pawn, but I put a stop to that by exchanging pawns.}
28. gxf5 Rxf5 29. Rf1 {As now, I defend again. } Rf3 {And, when Jack plays
this, that's when I'm ready to unpin my pawn.  But, I'm about to make a
mistake that will cost me a pawn and the game.} 30. Kg2 {?? As 30.Re3 was
called for.  Normally, it's not a make or break a moment when you talk
about a pawn, but that is the case at GM level.  And, it's also the case
when we reach the late midgame against a much stronger opponent, let alone,
my mentor.  In fact, at the end of the game, as noted in the intro, Jack
said that I played extremely well and was impressed.  And, we shook hands
as is usually done at the end of a tournament game.  But, he also mentioned
that a made a mistake somewhere with a pawn which is what lost, and Nathan
agreed by nodding his head.  Like, yep, that's right.  Upon further review,
I figured out that Jack was talking about this since b3 will fall which
is I give this 2 queries.} Rxb3 31. Bc1 Rb1 {As now, I'm half pinned with
no way out since I'm not willing to liquidate my Rf1.} 32. Re4 {So, I go
after Jack's B.} Bg5 33. h4 {And, I keep up with the attacks with the idea
of Hope Chess.  As I'm trying to wear my coach down in hopes that he'll,
eventually, make a mistake and let me win back a pawn, or even, lose on
time since his time is starting to run low here.  And, in reality, that's
all that one can hope for here.  At this phase, I have about, 5 minutes
more then Jack, but this won't last long. } Bf6 34. Rh1 {As it took me
about 2 minutes to process what's going on, when I realized that h4 is
attacked.  I also could've played 34.Kh3 but thought that this was better.}
Ra1 {But, there's no way to protect a4, so another pawn is going to fall.
 Now, I'm thinking about whether I have a possibility to mate him, at some
point if he takes.  I later realized that the answer is, obviously, no.
 But, I didn't think it was so obvious during the tournament.} 35. f4 {As
I was thinking that if takes, I could come up with my Re4, and then sac
my Bc1 with my Rh1.  Then, I could overwhelm him on the 7th rank or 8th
rank where it might be mate.  Then, I realized that this doesn't work due
to his Ra8. } Rxa4 36. fxe5 {Knowing that, I decide to exchange still in
hopes, that Jack will blunder.  And, it wasn't getting a passed either
since that'll be stopped.  Instead, I'm trying to create move complicated
that he'll have to spend more then a minute or two finding the right move.
 The idea being that I do it, just long enough, that he'll lose on time.
 However, there's no luck, as now, we have the same amount of time.  Not
sure exactly how much, but it was between 10-13 minutes remaining on the
clock.} Bxe5 37. d3 {Still having that hope, I advance.  But, I only took
Jack to place me in check.} Ra2+ 38. Kh3 {I also considered 38.Kf1, but
I didn't want to deal with another half pin against my Bc1.} Rf8 {But,
Jack is preparing to do damage.} 39. Rg1 {And, I get ready, as I'm thinking
about adding a guardian.  Although, the reality is that I'm, pretty much
out of good moves.  The main reason because his upcoming will cost me a
pawn.} Rf3+ 40. Kg4 {You won't believe this, but I originally played 40.Kg2
to attack the R.  It's bad since this is a tourney and don't what would
happen in reality.  But, Jack rightly pointed out that it was an illegal
move by saying, 'You can't do that.'  And, he pointed to his Ra2.} Rxd3
{If this were a regular OTB game, I would've resigned right here.  But,
this is a tournament and with under 10 minutes, I'm still hoping that I
can make a move that's complicated enough for Jack to lose on time.  As
he's down to 8 or 9 minutes.  However, the chances are very little to none,
as I now have less time of only 6 or 7 minutes left.} 41. Rge1 {So, I double
up.  As my attitude is, what are you going to do now, Jack?  Of course,
that's still based on the very slightest hopes of running his time out.}
Rd4 {But, this is what I call his ready answer, as I'm now forced exchange.
 It's now that I realize that my hope of timing is out is, pretty much,
gone.  In reality, it was definite here, but in the tournament, being that
it was just liquidation and no loss of material, I would play on.  That
would be to see if something would change.  I know that against someonelse,
like my strength, my chances would of winning on time would not be over.
 It's unlikely that I would. But, once in a while, when I reached a complicated
position, and I was also low on time, with almost the same time left, the
opposing player lost on time.} 42. Rxd4 Bxd4 43. Re7 {That's why I play
this.  The idea is that it targets his d6, and keeping in mind about what
I said with the time left, attacking d6 would take Jack some time to think
about.  But, not surprisingly, my coach had a ready answer for that, as
well.  And, it only took him, about 2 seconds, to play his next move.}
Be5 44. Bf4 {In my very last hope of making things complicated for Jack,
I play this.  As my idea is to use my K as a weapon with my B.  And, then,
I'd try to use that with my c4 and d5, with what I mentioned about pawn
chains to attack his K.  The goal, of course, would be to mate.  But, if
Jack figures that out and plays 44...Bxf4 then all that I had is, officially
gone.  And, that is exactly what happened.  Afterwhich, I resigned because
his b pawn would advance and promote. And, before that happens, I'm the
one that's going to timeout as he had 6 or 7 minutes against my 4 minutes.
 } Bxf4  0-1

