[Event "Wizard Chess"]
[Site "http://gameknot.com/"]
[Date "4/19/20"]
[Round "-"]
[White "Joe"]
[Black "Computer"]
[Result "1-0"]

{It was initially meant to be a training game, after having had accomplished
my goal.  That was of educating and trying to help people using my chess
skills, as noted in my profile.  But, it was in a negative way due to why
I thought that chess helps one in life with sleep deprivation covered.
 And, this game was played a day prior to me wrapping up the sleep deprivation
thread with 2 final sleep tips.  But, playing chess will still help me
in life since I'll be doing a chess exercise or two, or looking at an annotation
from a stronger player, like Charles, for example.  As, it will also help
me sleep better at night since it's a mental workout.  On the other hand,
I'm still doing it for the wrong reason, with High School, College, and
Work is why I'm changing my username to thewrongreason which will take
effect in 3 days.  This way, I don't feel like a failure or that I just
waisted my time for nothing which is how I felt for a day or 2.  That is,
given what I learned about why chess really helps one succeed in life,
combined with, easy19's departure.  With that being said, this was an interesting
computer game, at the easiest level which some will probably think is too
easy.  I used to do the hardest level, before TA recommended that I start
off super easy, and then, eventually go harder.  But, even at this level,
it wasn't so easy.  And, it took me about 50 minutes to win this game.
 Additionally, it would've been very easy for me to make a blunder and
perhaps lose which is how chess should really be about.  In contrast, the
first thing that I kept in mind is that chess is a good mental workout,
similar to the sleep article that involves exercising during the day. 
I actually have a slight preference for exercising this way, over, just
going to the gym since this workouts the brain which really tires me out,
when all is said and done.  Keeping in mind that Fred, and now GM Susan
Polgar are reading this from cyberspace, combined, with my sunglasses that
I'll have to use for the same reason you'd generally wear blue ray glasses.
 That's due to having to vote tonight for American Idol (which I hope opens
at the beginning so that I can have them finished by the end of the show).
 Unfortunately, it closes tomorrow morning (while at work), so I felt that
today was the perfect time to annotate this game.} 1. e4 {So, I started
off with my normal opening.  } Nf6 {Of course, I was not sure how the computer
would respond because it was, as noted, at the easiest level.  Therefore,
I wasn't sure if it was basic, intermediate, advanced, or even, expert.
 I just wasn't sure what to expect, but I evaluate this as intermediate.
 But, given where I actually stand, this might be at beginner level.  That's
because I'd say that, without completely going by ELO, I'd say that I'm
probably a low end class D player with an equivalent to something like
1400-1405 rating.  That actual guess is based on the fact that I don't
have an assigned FIDE rating, as one would expect.  As the computer put
up one heck of a fight, by my books.} 2. e5 {I could've also played 2.Bd3
but didn't want to block the center pawn which I've corrected Erika for
doing.  I also could've answered with 2.Nc3 which is what I almost did.
 But, then I remembered a variation that Susan showed with the French Defense.
 And, I realized that this was the perfect place to attack the N which
was for gain of tempo.} Nd5 {I had expected 2...Ne4, with which, I'd consider
3.Qe2 although it doesn't soundly develop.  And, with that, I'd play 3.Nf3
like I usually do.  But, with this move, I go right after the N again and
for the same reason. } 3. Bc4 e6 {I had anticipated another retreat.  But,
the computer played this.  I can relate to this developing, of course since
it is a center pawn.  As it opens up a line for the Bf8, but I considered
to be inaccurate, to say the least.} 4. Nf3 {That's why I decided to continue
with my development.} Bc5 {As does black which gets me ready to castle
at once.  And, btw, nothing else came into consideration.  For, I still
go by what a GM said, 'castle early and often.'} 5. O-O Nb4 {I was a little
surprised to see this move played and had no idea what to do.} 6. d4 {But,
that's why I decided to go right on the attack.  That is, keeping in mind
that I'm continuing with my development since it is the other center pawn.}
Nxa2 {?? One would wonder why the opponent would play this.  But, given
that it was at the easiest level, it would be to give me the benefit of
the doubt which I take full advantage of.} 7. Rxa2 O-O {?? Still giving
me the benefit of the doubt.  And, the idea is taking advantage of blunders
like this.} 8. dxc5 Qe7 {Going right after my pawn, and I like the only
option that I've got since it continues developing.} 9. Be3 c6 {I don't
see the point of this move.  As black, I would've continued developing
with 9...Nc6  The first thing, however, that I'm keeping in mind is that
I'm ahead and with an advantage.  In fact, I underestimated how much I've
got since I won the exchange earlier.  But, I also remember that I won
a piece.  But, I miscounted, I guess point value and thought that I was
up the equivalent to a piece+one pawn.  When, in reality it was also 2
pawns, which adds up to the equivalent of an entire R.} 10. Nc3 {Completing
my development which is why I played this.} Rd8 {Centralizing their R.
 The first thing that I'm keeping in mind here is that unless black develops
the Nb8 on the rim, the pieces are locked in and undeveloped on the Q side.
 I'm planning to use that against the computer.} 11. Ng5 {Starting with
this move, and it's not as it appears to be.  I thought about playing a
later Qh5 with a mate threat that would appear difficult to drive off.
 Then, I discovered that this would be a cheapo tactic situation.  That's
because one time, while mentoring Erika, I had the same threat and wanted
to see how she'd respond.  Instead of playing something like ...h6 which
would've stopped the threat, she harrassed my Q with ...g6.  So, I, of
course, mated her and taught her why it's not always a good idea to play
something just to attack the Queen.  Knowing how black would probably respond,
I just left things like this, in an attempt from ...h6 being played.} b6
{Finachettoing which also works.  So, I try to delay further development
with my next move.  And, I keep in mind that if black doesn't respond correctly,
I'm up another pawn which is about to happen.} 12. cxb6 Re8 {? Like now.
 So, now I go for more damage since taking gives me a passed pawn.  And,
what's more is that stopping a promotion means that the computer will have
to lose, at least a R.  Most people that I know would resign here, but
the computer doesn't until it's mate.  I know what it is because similar
to what Susan said, 'it's not over til it's over'.  This time, I'm quoting
something else, and I'm not sure where I first heard this expression. 
But, it's applicable here, and since it's the computer this is training.
 And, that's what it's doing here since at the most difficult level, it's
like playing against an expert or master.  I know because of where I went
wrong, combined with, how soon that happened against Ken during our second
training session.  } 13. bxa7 {I would've expected 13...Rxa7, but the computer
plays...} Bb7 {This which allows me to promote.  And, what I kept in mind
is how I did this against angellis, after having had lost a piece early
on.} 14. axb8=Q Rexb8 {I also expected him to take the other way, so with
14...Raxb8 since I'm ready to further liquidate.} 15. Rxa8 Bxa8 16. Qd6
{I'm still continuing with exchanging while ahead, just in case, anyone
is wondering what liquidation means.  I had also considered and almost
played 16.Bc5?? here.  But, I didn't want to hand back a piece.  What's
bad about the whole thing is that I almost did this since I was so tempted
to attack the Q, again.  But, better was 16.Na4, first since I overlooked
that b2 was en-prise.  It was about becoming a little overly confident
which is easy to do when you're this far ahead, given that it's the equivalent
to the Q.} Qxd6 17. exd6 Rxb2 18. Ra1 {But, I come up with another idea
of going after my the Ba8.  It's, in part, due to the computer wanting
my c2 pawn.  Now, if my N weren't placed on c3, I wouldn't do this.  As
then, the computer would be able to deliver a back rank mate, if the R
were to leave the first rank.  And, it's not just a simple attack, either.
 It's a long set of variations, where the B goes, I attack again.  Then,
it goes back to the 8th rank, where I can pin it which is what happens
later on.  But, there was something that I didn't take into consideration,
along the way.  And, little did I realize this, but later on I wind up
in a position where I come close allowing a draw by repetition.  With a
winning proposition, the last thing I'm going to allow is for black to
pull a swindle with a draw.  It's, in part, due to what I studied with
Susan.  That's also why I think that they were right to not resign, as
I once thought the same way in my first game with Fred.  And, sure enough
he made a lucky miscalculation which enabled me to pull a draw a rep. 
Now, it shouldn't have happened this way since he'd later play and win
several games for the same thing that would then cause him to depart. 
But, I had to give that of an example, and we'll see a somewhat similar
scenario sooner then later.} Bb7 19. Bd3 {But, first, I need to protect.
 And, there were several ways, but I thought that this was the best since
the only other alternative would be 19.Rc1  But, I still have ideas for
their Bb7.} f5 {I'm not surprised that black making air for the K, which
Susan calls, 'Opening up a window'.  But, I anticipated black doing this
with 19...f6, and I was prepared if they chose to do so.  This, however,
makes it easier, as I didn't want to be forced to retreat.  It wouldn't
have mattered too much, but I would've seen it as an inconvenience.} 20.
Ra7 {And, this is where I go back to my target.  But, I'm going to have
be very careful in the near future, for the reason mentioned earlier.}
Rb4 21. Bc5 {Since I target the R, and was ready to go back and forth.}
Rb2 22. Ba3 Rb6 23. Bc5 Rb2 {But, this is where we start getting close
to a draw by rep, which I'm sure is what the computer wanted.   Afterall,
they were hoping that I'd attack again 24.Ba3 with 24...Rb6 as the equivalent
to a conditional move.  I almost made this mistake in the same way that
I did against one of Jack's young student's named Kavyah.  And, I know
that they would declare this since I once had a different kind of draw
against the computer.  That was also by a miscalculation on the middle
level, where I was winning but miscalculated somewhere.  So, the game ended
in a stalemate very similar to what Jack showed in a different game.  I
looked at it and thought the same thing that Susan put it in a different
game.  That this cannot happen, so I decided to take them off guard with
my next move.  It was really opening up, and I kept in mind that if they
take, I can recapture on h6.  So, I'm trying to do what ION calls, 'the
masked battery' which is a discovered attack with a sac.} 24. g4 h6 {But,
the computer doesn't allow this.  And, I almost gave this a query since
I miscalculated as I thought and it looks like the computer will get another
pawn.  This is where I first realized, but something came to mind.  So,
I started thinking about N forks with examples because what I go by, my
gut, told me that I had one.  And, it's with the idea of listening to myself
but in a different context, this time around.  Then, I realized that I
had one, with 26.Ne5 which stops black from getting what I call counterplay,
even though that wasn't around.  But, by that, I mean even the smallest
shread, so that, they can't win another pawn back.  } 25. Nf3 fxg4 26.
Ne5 {That's with this move by remembering about forks since this is an
example of such.} g3 27. Nxd7 {Which is when I take advantage of that opportunity.}
Bc8 {My guess is that the computer wants to intimidate me with this attack.
 But, it won't work, as my plan behind 18.Ra1 works right here.  As I can
and will directly pin their Bc8.} 28. Ra8 gxh2+ {The computer was ready
to exchange.  I'm fine since even though it's not pieces, exchanging pawns
still leaves black to less with.  And, I'm still thinking about the whole
idea of why you'd want to exchange when ahead.  It doesn't always workout,
but more often then not, it does.} 29. Kxh2 Rb8 {?? But, I was surprised
to see black play this.  Then again, the computer has no good moves left.
 I kept that right in mind which I took with R, as opposed to the N.  Of
course, the idea being was to leave black in that pin.} 30. Rxb8 g6 {Not
leaving air to breathe anymore.  But, then, it's about what else.  However,
I'm still going to take with check on my next move was the reason behind
the way that I captured on my previous move.} 31. Rxc8+ Kf7 {I thought
about what to do here and almost played 32.Rxc6.  As that's an obvious
looking move, and a lot of times I'll just play a good move.  I don't think
too much about, 'when you see a good move, look for something better'.
 But, I did here for just one reason.  And, it's because of where I went
wrong against anitam when I already made a mistake and had allowed a swindle
with a draw.  But, then, instead of underpromoting to a N, I just did a
regular promotion, and it was game over.  The reason being was where the
N was lined when you consider what happens during the check.  Although
it's really advanced, I'm thinking about what I learned with the N+B endgame
checkmate.  And, with me not having much experience at all as Susan knows,
if I had that situation, I would've, easily miscalculated and either allowed
a draw by 50 move rule or by 3 fold repetition.  However, from hanging
out with the wrong person which got me in trouble, and then practicing
on my own, I learned what went into it.  For me, that's all that mattered
since I'd later use a different line of symmetry to help Erika several
years back.  And, using that math, I used the same method to deliver mate
here.  I would've missed the opportunity if I didn't.  It was by confining
the computers monarch to the corner where it can't get out, starting with
my next move.  In fact, that's how I discovered that it's now mate in 4
which I take full advantage of.} 32. Rf8+ Kg7 33. Bd4+ e5 34. Bxe5+ Kh7
35. Rh8#  1-0

