[Event "'FIDE Women’s World Championship Match 2020 - Game 12'"]
[Site "http://gameknot.com/"]
[Date "1/23/20"]
[Round "-"]
[White "GM Aleksandra Goryachkina"]
[Black "GM Wenjun Ju"]
[Result "1-0"]

{This was an interesting game between GM's Aleksandra and Ju for the Womens
World champion.  GM Susan Polgar showed this game on her blogspot as there's
a lot to understand which makes it educational.  But, she doesn't normally
annotate a game, and Susan didn't here.  So, when it's not one of my tournament
games, and I see others, the first games that I'd annotate are ones that
Susan shows due to how much I've learned from this GM.  This was out of
12 games, and whoever wins more gets the Women's World Champion title.
 Before this game, GM Alexsandra was losing, as Ju was a point ahead. 
But, after this game, it became just like the World Champion between Carlsen
and Caruana before blitz where it was sudden death overtime.  Well with
white winning this game, it's tied again which turns it into sudden death,
so now, it's based on 2 or 3 fast blitz games, and whoever wins it earns
that title.  When this game was over, Susan congratulated Alexsandra on
her blogspot.  It was a really good, but as it usually happens, I believe
that there was one or two small oversights by Ju that costed her this game.}
1. d4 {Unlike with my games, I never know how it'll begin in a GM game.
 But, this is how Goryachkina opened.  Yes, I'm very used to seeing the
QPO, and in fact, I did this a couple of times, when I was still in the
process of experimenting with different openings.  In reality, that's ill
advised when trying to get more experience.  But, before Susan posted it,
I was a little stubborn and would do anything to try and take my opponents
off guard, as Carl does sometimes.} d5 {Of course, this is how I also would've
responded to the QPO, as we're now into the QPG.} 2. Nc3 {I used to be
very critical of my students playing this right after 1.d4  I then stopped
when ION pointed out that it's not that big of a deal by saying, 'forget
about the c pawn'.  That was also combined with GM Susan Polgar not saying
anything about advancing the c pawn first in QPO.  And, now that a GM has
just played this and didn't worry about c2, we know that it really isn't
a big deal, afterall.  If it were, Goryachkina would've focused on playing
c4 first since everything is calculated in GM games.  In other words, as
Coach Stockel put a year or two back, in these kind of games at top levels,
'it's all been analyzed.'} Nf6 {But, this is also what I would've done
as black since Ju is focusing on K side operations.  That is, getting things
out and castling short, sooner or later.} 3. Bf4 {I would've thought very
hard about what to do as white.  Believe it or not, I would've played 3.Nf3
for the same reason that black had played 2...Nf6, but this move also would've
come into consideration, as would 3.Bg5.  But, I would, fairly quickly
rule out 3.Bg5 because of 3...h6 which doesn't seem that big of a deal.
 On the other hand, the LSB is more active, so I would've come very close
to playing this move, but my instincts would tell me to play 3.Nf3 for
the reason I mentioned in my second sentence here.} e6 {Opening up a line
for her Bf8 for the reason that I mentioned on her previous move.  I would've
considered this move for the same reason.  But, I'd, instead, fianchetto
because this move limits the mobility of her Bc8 as it now covers squares
before this move.  However, that was calculated at this level, so there's
a good reason for allowing it.  I just don't know what it is, though. 
But, I'm already becoming very interested now.} 4. Nb5 {That is, especially,
after Goryachkina plays this.  I completely would've missed it and would
just continue with 4.Nf3.  But, this move is much better since white is
threatening to fork Q and R.  So, from the other perspective I would not
know what to do.  And, for sure, I would've already lost, as black on the
next move because of what I'd do which doesn't quite work here.} Na6 {As
I would've played 4...Qd7, to try and revert the threat.  My thinking would
be that if white tries to then attack with 5.Nxc7, I'd see it as a blunder
and would play 5...Qxc7??  And, that would be Flip Coin Chess, this time
around it since I wouldn't give it any though, whatsoever.  Instead, my
mind would be just like a coin here.  The reason being is that it works
in other positions, but we, especially I, need to remember that c7 isn't
attacked once but twice.  And, it's only defended once.  So, Ju would,
at the very least, lose her R if the N was able to get there without compensation.
 Therefore, even though I wouldn't want to place my N on the rim, this
is an extenuating circumstance.  And, Ju made the right choice.  With a
losing move that I would've already made, I see why Susan showed this to
her viewers, as I'm sure that they would easily go wrong somewhere to which
is why there's plenty to be learned.  As the idea is understanding the
position, as Susan emphasized a few months ago.} 5. e3 {I would've hard
time deciding between whether to fianchetto or play this.  Essentially,
my move would still be 5.Nf3.  But, of just the 2 moves that I mentioned,
this is what I would've done as fianchettoing would leave the B in a less
active place, this time around.  What's good about where it is, is the
fact that it's on the same line as Ju's Na5 which leaves it vulnerable,
should Goryachkina move her Nb5-c3, or even a3.} Bb4+ {While it develops,
I don't see the point behind this check, this time around because of how
white will respond which is also what I'd do as white.} 6. c3 Be7 7. a4
{At first, I also didn't see the point of this move, but after looking
at it, I like the move played.  In fact, I like it just as well, consider
it just as good, as what I would've done with my Ng1.  As Goryachkina now
has a nice opened file for her R which can become very useful, later on.}
O-O {Unlike the previous move, this is also what I would've done as black,
at this point.} 8. Bd3 {Although I still like the N move, this is the only
other move that I would've considered as white as it does the same thing,
which is preparing to castle.  Goryachkina will do this later, instead
of, sooner.  I don't understand why, but I know that if we see a GM delay
castling, then there's a good reason.  And, obviously, it's called for.
 When, I posted in Joann's thread in KOH club about when and where to castle
in TA's club, Joe said that you usually want to castle sooner then later
which aligns with what ION later posted in Joann's thread.  But, TA said
that it more often happens at GM level where it's better to delay castling,
or even, not castle at all.  This is an example of such, and what I remember
is that, 'When you see a good move, look for something better' as both
Ken and Susan emphasized.} c6 {Going after the N, and I like this a lot.
 As I wouldn't trust the N either.  Believe it or not, Tom did this a couple
of times in a somewhat similar position against me during a couple of tournaments
games, and it was just effective in those games as it is here.  Afterall,
the idea is, 'don't trust your opponent' as ION puts it.} 9. Na3 {This
is would've also been my idea behind hitting the N to since it's forced
back.  I wouldn't have seen it right away since Ju also could've played
8...Bd7 which completes development.  But, after seeing what white would
have to do, I would've played it to for a tempo gain, as well.} c5 {I used
to not see the point of a move like this.  But, Ju played this to try and
break right through with the pawns which is a very good strategy.  In one
annotation, Ken mentioned a different variation with the same idea, and
that would've been a wining move for me.  At a much later point, ION mentioned
the same idea with a different variation.  But, it was always attacking
a pawn to break through, like this.} 10. Nf3 {In the meantime, Goryachkina
is also continuing with her development as I would also do here.  This
enables white to castle once and for all, but as noted earlier, since white
will delay it for a few moves, then castling right now would not be a good
idea.  And, I also have something to learn about that to since one can
very impulsive with that.} Ne4 {For example, Goryachkina isn't attacked,
yet.  But, white, instead, will open up a file for her other R.} 11. h3
f5 {Ju is thinking along the same lines.  I, on the other hand, would've
found this move to be risky since that was her weakest pawn.  And, with
that, I would've thought that my K is now in danger of becoming exposed.
 Having said that, that isn't the case here because if it were, Ju would
not have played it.  So, she analyzed it, and I guess felt that she needed
to do something with her Rf8.} 12. Nb5 {Meanwhile, as there's no more attack,
Goryachkina came back up with her.  I, on the other hand, would've played
12.Nc2 as I'd be worried about a future attack on the N.  However, I would've
overlooked that there isn't, as I'd be thinking that black could easily
respond with 12...Nd6.  But, if I were white, and black were to play, I'd
immediately exchange on d6 because of how powerful Ju's Ne4 is.} c4 {Having
said that, I would've played 12...Nf6.  And, from that, I've learned that
it would be even worse to exchange pawns c5.  With that being said, what
Goryachkina plays next is how I also would've responded here.} 13. Bxe4
fxe4 14. Ne5 {I also like this move since it would've been easy to play
14.Nd2 which I would've considered.  But, I can also agree that the N is
more powerful here.  And, although material is even here, if I were to
evaluate, I'd say that Goryachkina already has an advantage here.  That's
with a space advantage as there's more space in the center, including a
piece already on there.} Nb8 {With that being said, Ju is already looking
for a better outpost for her N.} 15. O-O {And, Goryachkina castles, at
once which means that now was the time to do it and not earlier.  But,
Ju has other ideas since she goes right on the offense.} a6 16. Na3 Nd7
{This was the idea.  At first, I thought that Ju wanted to bring her N
to f6, but she's got other ideas which I like more.} 17. Nc2 {Meanwhile,
Goryachkina is working on a better outpost for her N.} Qe8 {I don't know
why Ju played this.  But, my guess is that her aims to get the Q right
in front of the R which I've seen and done before.  In fact, that's why
I once played a move similar to this, and it was great in the last tournament
game which ION mentioned.  He mentioned that it was a lot stronger then
the move he was thinking of then.} 18. f3 {Trying to exchange pawns.  But,
what Ju does next is how I also would've responded since I don't white's
Ne5 with where it's placed.} Nxe5 19. Bxe5 Bd7 {Completing her development.}
20. Ne1 {I don't see the point behind this move since there doesn't appear
to be a stronger outpost for the N.  And, this appears to undevelop the
N for a reason that I would not consider to be good.  Although I know better
then that due to who moved it back.} Qh5 {But, I do see the point here
as Ju is trying to launch a K side attack with her Q, similar to what bhidragon
did with me.  The idea being is that I'd think how to get my Rf8+Be7 into
the attack, as black.  On the other hand, Goryachkina is telling black
that she'll have none of that with her next move.  Having said that, Ju
will respond in the same way that I'd respond, as black, on her next move.
 As I'd now be thinking that white's K is badly exposed.  But, as white
shows, there's no such luck, and even if that were so, 'it's not so easy',
as Coach Stockel has illustrated before.} 21. Kh2 exf3 22. Nxf3 Be8 {On
the other hand, I don't see the point behind this move since the LSB didn't
appear attacked.  But, I also don't know what I'd do as black as I don't
see anything that I'd consider much better then the move played.  Having
said that, I would've responded with 22...Rac8, with the idea being 23...Rc6,
followed by 24...Rfc8 where both of my R's would be doubled up on one file.
 Jack pointed out in a different game against him that this could be quite
dangerous.  This is when I was a Q for a minor piece and 2 or 3 pawns up.}
23. Qe1 {But, this is also what I would've considered as white to break
the pin.  But, I would've answered with 23.Qd2 or 23.Qc2 to leave both
of my R connected on the 1st rank since having both rooks on one rank can
also be quite powerful.  We'd, especially, see it if both of white's rooks
were on the 7th or 8th rank, and/or, both of black's rooks were on the
1st or 2nd rank.  In fact, this is how chesskingdom64 won a game against
me, which he then annotated during a mini tournament, way back when (during
my 2nd or 3rd year on GK).} Qg6 {I don't see the point behind this move.
 Instead, I would've played 23...Rf5 to half pin white's Rf1.} 24. Bf4
{But, I like this move a lot since it breaks the half pin.} Qe4 {I also
like this move since it allows Ju to later play ...Rf5-h5 without having
to worry about a N fork.  But, I'm not surprised that black has other ideas.}
25. a5 {Giving her Ra1 more mobility.} h6 {On the other hand, I wouldn't
have even considered this move since this not only appears to weaken the
monarch, but we have a ways to go before we reach the endgame, especially
with 2 minor pieces left on both sides.} 26. Nd2 {That is especially why
I like the move played by white.} Qh7 27. e4 {Going for a center break
which Ju will get to first.  But, something tells me that this is a mistake
since Goryachkina doesn't recapture which means that she gave this pawn
for a good reason.  So, that makes the dynamics of this game even more
complicated and complex.  I say complicated and complex because we're also
at the beginning of where I start to feel board which means that my brain
is really exercising here.} dxe4 28. Be5 {Like I said, instead of recapturing,
Goryachkina plays this instead.  And, this appears to be a dangerous K
side attack since it's with the pawn right in front of the monarch.  So,
then it really boils down to how dangerous.  Well, that remains to be seen.}
Rc8 {I don't see the point behind this move, especially since Goryachkina
will exchange in a way that I like, as Ju will be forced to recapture with
her K.  Under that ground, I would've exchanged first with 28...Rxf1 as
black.  And, that's where I realized that black was trying to prevent that
the whole time.  Thus, I figured out why, as I don't what makes it so,
but blacks Rf8 is more active then white's Rf1, and I thought the complete
opposite before we reached this point.} 29. Rxf8+ Bxf8 30. Qe2 {At first,
I wasn't sure why Goryachkina played this, as I, personally would've played
the same move, to allow 31.Qg4.  As I'd be thinking that I could get a
very powerful K side attack, after I play something like 32.Rf1 with mounting
pressure.  But, white doesn't do that.  That's when I figured out that
her real goal is to activate her Ra1, which white will do in several moves.}
e3 {Going after the N, but it's too little too late because of Goryachkina's
next move.  Having said that, I would've answered with 30...Bb5 to protect
c4 which is about to fall.  And, this is where I believe that Ju starts
to miscalculate and go wrong.} 31. Nxc4 Bb5 {Although there's a lot to
be said about this move being played now, as opposed to, a move ago.  That's
due to white's Nc4 being pinned and attacked twice, but Goryachkina says
not so fast with her next move.} 32. b3 Qe4 {On the other hand, I don't
see the point behind this move.  But, as per what I consider the boring,
I wouldn't know what to do either.  I'd probably offer a draw here, but
if I were to do so, I also know that my offer would be declined, especially
since it would be against a much stronger opponent.  And, with that being
said, the opponent probably would be annoyed or even upset with me since
that it is considered discourteous against stronger opposition as ION pointed
out with his game against Dave, dynamic_dv.} 33. Rf1 {With that being said,
this is what I also would've played for the reason mentioned earlier. 
And, with that, Ju will also go down a pawn now no matter what she does.}
Qc6 {But, I would've played } 34. Qxe3 Qe8 {I wouldn't know what to do
here, and although it's very difficult to say for sure and can't reach
since it's at GM level, I don't think that Ju has any good moves left.
 Me thinking that also makes matters that more interesting since if I were
playing as white, I'd know that white can go wrong.  And, I'd probably
even underestimate how easy it would be do that, as I've, unfortunately,
done before.} 35. Qe2 {I would've played 35.Qf3? for the reason mentioned
earlier, but I see why that would be a mistake since, as I've seen in my
training games with Ken which I later used against Carl, Goryachkina's
Nc4 was defended twice but also attacked twice.  This now defends a third
time which means that this prevents Ju from gaining back a pawn.} Qg6 {I'm
not sure why Ju played this, but I think that she's trying to find a way
to attack c4 a third time, as well.} 36. Rf3 {Preparing to attack the Q
which she'll do in a couple of moves.  I also know that in the longer,
Goryachkina has something else planned which involves Bf8.  I just didn't
think that she'd be successful in attacking Ju's Bf8 due to her monarch
until her next move which is also why I don't see the point behind 36...Kh7.}
Kh7 37. Qf2 Bc6 {I also don't see the point behind this move because of
how I'd respond as white which I now see would be a blunder in some form.}
38. Rg3 {As I'd answer with 38.Rxf8?? with the idea that if 38...Rxf8,
39.Qxf8  But, upon looking at it and seeing that she wouldn't recapture
on f8, I'm not sure how Ju would answer.  On the other hand, this is where
I figured out that it would be overwhelming for white since black would
do something with her Q.  And, that's why Goryanchkina attacked it first.}
Qf5 {I also figured it out with this move since instead of letting white
come up on f8, she threatens to exchange.  And, with that, I figured out
that Goryachkina's Q is more active which is why Ju threatened to exchange
it.  What also made me realize is how white responds next since, as with
my first game against Ken, white doesn't allow this.} 39. Qe2 Rd8 {And,
that's why Ju is trying to put pressure on white.} 40. Ne3 {But, it won't
do.} Qf7 41. Qd3+ {And, what white plays now is something that would've
taken me off guard.  As I would not see this check coming.  This is where
I begin to realize how desperate Ju's situation has become as, otherwise,
why else would you place your opponent in check at GM level.  Unlike when
you're learning, professionals only do when there's a good reason to do
that.  And, with that, I don't even know how serious this check is.  But,
I know that this is very bad news for black.} g6 {Blocking it.} 42. Rg4
{But, Goryachkina has other ideas now.  Although I don't know what it is,
I realize that Ju is in very bad shape here.} Bg7 {That's why she played
this.  I'm sure that she didn't want to exchange but felt that she had
no choice here.  Personally, I would've felt differently and would've answered
with 42...Be7.  So, I know that Ju also looked at this which also means
that there's nothing else that she could do. } 43. Bxg7 Kxg7 44. Nc4 {Although
I generally don't even begin to guess why Goryachkina would play a move
like this, her previous move does answered a lot of my questions.  From
that, my inference is that she's now planning to do a lot with her N such
as 45.Ne5.  But, given that she doesn't play that, white's got something
even better.  I'm not sure what it is, but for certain we can say that
it's too much for Ju to handle in.  As I see the way that white is swarming
in from the broader spectrum, the overall picture here.} Bb5 {That is why
Ju pins, and from black's perspective, as with my hopeless positions against
Ken I'd be quite happy here.  But, the truth is that I shouldn't be as,
similar to my training games, Goryachkina has a very good response against
black that's extremely powerful.} 45. Qg3 {And, that's with this move,
as Ju is forced to exchanged.  I wouldn't here but would, instead, play
45...Bc6  And, from that, I also know that black looked at this and figured
out that it doesn't work here.  I see why because I'd be overlooking at
what Goryachkina's Nc4 is capable of.} Bxc4 46. bxc4 Rd7 {Doing what Ju
can to stay in, she plays this.} 47. Re4 {Which is why I would've played
47.Rf4, but I see why this is more powerful.  As Goryachkina will have
the option of attacking e6 twice which she'll do on her next move.  And,
she doesn't even have to take, and given that white doesn't do so that
fast means that she's got something even better.  I'm interested in what
that is here.} Qf6 48. Qe3 Rd6 49. c5 {And, it's with this move.  Attacking
the R or anything with a pawn is what I consider to be a pawn storm.  Might
have gotten the definition wrong, but the pawn is definitely doing something.
 I also know that Goryachkina's short term intention was to get unstoppable
passed pawn which she knew wouldn't work.  So, she then had a back up,
longer term, plan which is more dangerous.  And, I'm even more interested
in what that plan is then I was with what white was doing earlier.} Rc6
50. Kg1 {Well, Goryachkina starts off with this move.  I guess the idea
is that we're in the endgame, so the K is a weapon.  The only asset is
that Ju's Q stops the monarch from reaching f2.  But, it's minor with what
else white will play.} Qf5 {Trying to stop the plan, in some way.} 51.
Rf4 {But, it's, again, too little too late, as this move shows.} Qg5 {Which
is why Ju pins.  But, the same is to be said with Goryachkina's next move.}
52. h4 Qe7 53. Qe5+ {And, I'm beginning to see the K side attack plan since
Ju cannot bring her monarch to the 6th rank which means that it's starting
to become confined to one corner, as I've mentioned in some of Erika's
annotations by using a little trigonometry and line of symmetry with the
B+N endgame checkmate.} Kg8 54. Rf6 {And, we're seeing that continue. 
What's more is that Goryachkina is attacking g6 which will force Ju's next
move.  In doing so, black's monarch will be confined even more.} Kh7 55.
h5 {And, that's why, despite not losing a pawn, Goryachkina, as I described
earlier is breaking through.  It's of even more use now then earlier, as
this is similar to how charleshiggie won a tournament game against brigadecommander
which I annotated a couple of years back.  In fact, that's the reason why
Janet, ultimately, resigned.} gxh5 56. Qf4 {And, that is also why Goryachkina
plays this.} e5 {Under that ground, I would've tried to prevent what's
coming with 56...Kg7.  I would've felt a little better, but this would
be of no use, after 57.Qg3+, as after 57...Kh8, black winds up in the same
situation.} 57. Qxh6+ {With that I see a mate that's soon to follow.  And,
with it, I'd resign here, but Ju plays a little longer.  The idea being
is that she hopes that Goryachkina's goes wrong by miscalculated.  The
idea then is that white keeps checking the same way, as then, black will
repeat the same moves back and forth.  As the hope is that the position
would repeat itself 3 times which would allow black to pull a swindle and
announce a draw by repetition.} Kg8 58. Qg6+ Kh8 59. Qxh5+ {But, Goryachkina
stops it with this move since the Q isn't on h6 or g6.} Kg8 60. Qg6+ {So,
not only has white picked up another pawn, but although it might delayable
it's not by long.  And, Ju cannot prevent a checkmate from occurring which
is why she resigned here.}  1-0

