[Event "Gone but not Forgotten Part 2"]
[Site "http://gameknot.com/"]
[Date "2018.03.14"]
[Round "-"]
[White "kenneth_fiore_3"]
[Black "scionescire"]
[Result "1-0"]
[WhiteElo "2113"]
[BlackElo "2176"]
[TimeControl "3 days per move"]

{In my previous annotation Ken played a short against Charles and got a
draw in my mini tournament.  But, I also mentioned that I'd annotate a
longer game, where Ken plays an opening that I'm not familiar and wins
against Roland.  BTW, I looked in his past game history for something like
this but had a very difficult time doing so.  I didn't know this, but after
a certain period, past games, after a year, are deleted.  So, I, instead,
looked at Ken's teams games, and then which ones he won and came across
this one.  And, by not familiar with, I also mean take me off guard and
make it easy for me to go wrong, as this is what he'd want from me.  In
our first two games, it was like that where he played defenses, since I
was white, against him that I wasn't used to.  And, I lost my way quickly
which led to mistakes later on that, eventually, costed me the game.  In
fact, the reason for our second training game was because I was overly
critical of one of my students for playing an opening that I wasn't used
to and thought it was inaccurate, but he played it pretty well.  If I recall
correctly, he won, regardless.  With Ken gone, I'm also annotating this
game in his honor. } 1. b3 {I'm not used to this opening, but it's the
Nimzovich_Larsen Attack.  In fact, I've only seen it three times, including
an annotation that he showed me which is seen in the comment right below.
 However, I did not pay nearly as much attention to that opening since
I was focused on the variations where he sacked the Q and won.   And, I
forgot about the first time which charleshiggie annotated with Ken playing
it.  So, the only time I remember was between one of my students and her
opponent, I'd say about 1.5 years ago since it was shortly before Ken became
terminally ill.  I remember, as he was no longer commenting on annotations,
at that point.  Her opponent also played the Nimzovich_Larsen Attack and
I was just as critical for that, and ION rightly pointed out that it's
a perfectly playable opening, in that annotation.  And, this was, after
my second training game with Kenneth_fiore_3.  So, I talked to Ken about
this since it was the same factor that led to our training game.  And,
he put it in a nicer way then how I'm going to explain it.  I told him
what had happened and what ION said.  And he said that, first, the Larsen
Attack is a well respected opening.  Second, Ken said that he played it
against GM Larsen himself.  I presume that it was in a training session
or two, and although Ken lost he played extremely well.  And, the GM was
impressed and proud of his play.  Third, other players close to Ken's strength
played against it and criticized him for doing it.  But, after the games,
he told them that it can't be so bad, if he won.  And, it's a reminder
of what TA deals with when Joe says that he plays what others call, 'garbage
openings', and the senior master made the same point.  The moral to that,
the point that Ken wanted to make, was for me to study these kind of openings
that I haven't seen before or think is not good at professional level to
see how the experts do it.  Otherwise, it would continue to be a problem
for me.  Thus, since I only remembered seeing this opening once and was
critical, it aligns with Ken's recommendation which is how I'd know that
this is the kind of thing that he would want me to study as HW. } e5 {Now,
with this annotations, it is, going to be, as if we played another training
but with me as black which was another reason that I chose this game to
annotate since Ken was white.  I'm going to do this by seeing what black
and then letting you know how I would've handled things to bring out my
thought process.  The reason being is that, in our training games, I had
to discuss every move with Ken before I played it so that he could see
how I was thinking.  This way he could review my thought process which
he'd use to coach me.  That's where I became superpicky before exchanging
pieces, as you'll see in my first training game with me.  Having said that,
I like this move and is also what I would've played.  Unless the opponent
opens with 1.d4 or 1.Nf3, 1...e5 is how I answer because I have a lot of
experience with it.  So, it's sticking with what you know, as was the annotation
with my training game against elyhim.} 2. Bb2 {Of course, as Ken asked
me the question, when he's done making a move, especially what I'm not
used to, then it's about what to do.  I would've anticipated based on my
thought process which is why not the complete fianchetto, once and for
all.} Nc6 {But, as black I'd be wondering what to do.  I would've taken
2...Nf6? into consideration because my idea is to develop on the K side
where I can castle short sooner.  But, upon realizing that this loses a
pawn, thinking about other options, I would've also played this, myself.}
3. e3 {I wouldn't have seen this move coming.  Instead, I would've anticipated
1.e4 which also opens up the center, but Ken has his ways.  And, it's a
reminder that things aren't always the way that they appear.  I know Ken's
playing style, and he likes taking opponents off guard, especially, when
he's training someone.} Nf6 {And, this is also what I would've played for
the same reason mentioned on Roland's previous move.} 4. c4 {Ken plays
something a little different then what I expected, which is also why it's
good to study.  As I would've expected and been ready for 4.Nf3.  But,
I understand why he played this, as the c pawn is advancing to allow Ken
to play 4.Nc3.  It goes with the idea of not blocking your c pawn in 1.d4
d5 openings.  There's something else to be said about this move which is
that white has a pawn chain which could be useful later on.} b6 {But, this
is where things different from what I would've played.  Having said that,
I would've played 4...Bb4 to enable castling on the next move.  The idea
being that I like to castle ASAP, although Morgan in the WTWLTR said that
while I'm usually correct, one should be a little cautious.  As with Joann's
thread on when to where to castle in the KOH club, Morgan informed me that
sometimes, castling needs to wait.  In other cases, it's safer to castle
long, and there are even times when it's not safe to castle.  So, knowing,
if, when, and where are extremely important.  With that being said, I understand
why Roland would play this instead, as he's fianchettoing and preparing
to bring his Bc8 on a nice long diagonal.} 5. Nc3 {As noted before, this
was the whole idea behind 4.c4.} Bb7 {Having said what I posted on Roland's
previous, as to why he'd fianchetto'd, this is the move that I also would've
played.  My attitude is that when you fianchetto, you might as well complete
it right away.  Having said that, I guess there are times where it's necessary
to delay completing your fianchetto.  In fact, I might have even seen one
example since after someone, possibly, a student fianchetto'd, the opponent
attacked a piece which forced him or her to protect right away.  But, besides
the obvious of an attacked piece or immediate mate threat, I think that
there's other times where it's necessary to delay.  I just don't when.
 But, this was, certainly, not one of those times.} 6. Nf3 {Continuing
with his development.} e4 {For the same reason that I noted when Roland
fianchetto'd, I would've played 6...Bc5.  On the other hand, I like this
move even better because this attacks Ken's Nf3.  I often have a hard time
figuring out when to attack something, and the problem is that my instincts
often tell me just to do it.  But, I have learned that attacking something
isn't always good and as with exchanging, you shouldn't attack just because
it's possible to do so.  And, in fact, I once corrected one of my students
for attacking just because it was possible, and not just in her annotation.
 But, I did this in 2 training games with Erika when I mated her.  So,
it's about figuring out when.  Having said that, I agree that now was the
time to do that because of where this will take black. } 7. Ng5 Qe7 {For
the same reason as previously mentioned, I still would've played 7...Bc5.
 However, I like what Roland is doing with his Q better since it's now
on the same diagonal as his Bf8.  And, in comparison I've been a little
critical of this move when it was a student since it blocks in his Bf8.
 But, as with what Ken noted with openings that I'm not familiar with,
I just learned something and realize that it's not always bad to do that.
 And, I like where it's going here since black is threatening a discovered
attack with something like 8...Ng8  Of course, I'm pretty sure that he
won't undevelop, but I like this move because it defends e4 a second time.
 Having said that, I would've been upset with myself for not even considering
this move, as I concur with Roland that this is the best move here.} 8.
Qb1 {Attacking e4 a third time, very similar to what I saw with Ken in
our second training game.  In fact, something like this is where I started
to go wrong.  As I wasn't prepare for a second or third attack which costed
me a piece.  Not too long after that, the position became resignable for
me.} Ne5 {With Ken attacking the third, Roland played something that I
would've had a difficult finding.  This is where the training part starts
because it's about, what I'd do now, as Ken has stressed to.  But, after
giving it very long and careful consideration, this is also what I would've
played.  The reason being is that it blocks one of Ken's attackers on e4,
his Q.  Similar to how it was with me, what, I believe that Roland is not
prepared for is what Ken's about to do which is start a series of exchanges.}
9. Ngxe4 {I would've expected a nasty fork threat from Ken with 9.Nb5.
 But, I see why Ken didn't play it since Roland would easily get out by
castling long.  By deciding to go into a series of exchanges, I figured
out that this really helps Ken.  I only know this since, as we know, I
was criticized by Ken for exchanging unnecessarily during our first training
session.  So, given that Ken started doing it, as Roland's now forced to
go with the flow.  One thing is for sure, White's position will be more
mobile after forcing black to exchange his more active piece.} Nxe4 10.
Nxe4 Nxc4 {This is an interesting move by Roland.  Unfortunately for me,
it's not something that I would've considered since, in general, I don't
like to grab a pawn with a piece when it's defended by a pawn.  As then,
we'd be talking about giving up a piece for a pawn.  However, Ken has backup,
in case, black were to take with either the Q or B.  I think that if Ken
were to play 11.bxc4, Roland would recapture with his Bb7, as opposed to,
his Q to prevent further exchanges.} 11. Nf6+ {But, similar to what I've
seen and was told, Ken plays something that I didn't expect.  For sure,
it would've, at the very least, taken me off guard right here, if it didn't
before.  With this exchange, Roland is now forced to exchange his more
active N for white's less active piece.  On the other hand, black will
win a pawn.  My guess is that Ken didn't blunder the pawn, but rather,
gave it to Roland.  I believe that white has some variations that can overwhelm
black, nonetheless.  } gxf6 12. Bxc4 Bxg2 13. Rg1 {Unlike other moves,
I also would've anticipated this from Ken.  Similar to our discussion,
I'd be thinking very hard about where to go with my B.} Be4 {But, I would've
picked this spot since Ken's Q is under siege.  However, this enables Ken
to further exchange and recapture a pawn which is to his benefit as it's
proof of how much more mobile his position becomes.  If it didn't white
would've played 14.Qc1 or 14.Qd1.} 14. Bxf6 Bxb1 15. Bxe7 Bxe7 16. Rxb1
c6 {I would've played 16...Bh4 to pin the pawn on the critical square f2.
 But, Ken would've had an easy answer to this with 17.Rg4, so I think that
Roland made the right choice especially since this is an endgame where
the monarch soon comes into play.  As there's something else to be said
about this move which is that it prepares black to play 17...b5 or 17...d5
 And, in this case, attacking a piece becomes very useful as I saw a similar
example to the Ruy Lopez, 3...Bc5, as then comes 4.c3, in preparation for
5.d4 also attacks the B.} 17. Ke2 {This is where it happens, as Ken is
showing how dangerous a monarch becomes.  If I recall how powerful he said
it was, a very long while back, a mentor told me that in an endgame, a
K is as powerful as a R+B combined.  Not only that, but his R's are well
connected which make them dangerous.} d5 {Given what I posted above, this
is also what I would've played.  17...b5 would've come into consideration,
but with this move, Roland is advancing his center pawn which is very useful.
 Up until about 3 or 4 years ago, I thought that center control only mattered
in the opening.  But, elyhim noted that maintaining control in the center
is also important during the mid and endgames.} 18. Bd3 Bf6 {I would've
had a hard time figuring out what to do.  But, I would've played 18...Rd8
to centralize one of the R's for center control.  However, I like the move
that Ken played since the B now covers more squares, and therefore, has
more mobility then earlier.} 19. Rbc1 {I'm not surprised to see Ken going
after c6.} Kd7 {With that being said, I would've, believe it or not, blundered
a pawn with 19...Rc8?, as I've done things like this.  It's not super easy,
but it would've discovered what really happens after 20.Bb5.  Having said
that, 19...c5 would've come into serious consideration, but not this move.
 I, however, like what Roland played better for the same reason as I liked
17.Ke2.  Therefore, I had more to learn about assessing the position a
little more carefully, as Ken emphasized in our second training game. 
Afterall, it's easy to think that a move is good since wins a pawn or does
protects in a stronger way.  But, then, you find out later on that it was
a blunder because of things like winning material with another attacker,
as I saw with Ken.  And, it also would've happened in this position.} 20.
Rg4 {At first, I thought that Ken was only trying to Roland's Bf6 on the
next move.  But, I realized that Ken wants much more since he'll be able
to do it on the next move, anyway.  I'm not sure what else he intends to
do, but upon learning from him, I also know that it can't be good.} h5
{Not wanting to take chances, Roland goes on the offense.  I would've attacked
with 20...Rb2, but it's useless since I believe that Ken would answer with
21.Rb1.} 21. Rf4 {Similarly, Ken counterattacks, which I would've expected.
 In fact, I didn't see it right away, but white now has a fork on black's
B+P  With that being said, I'd be scrambling to figure out what to do here
to get out of it..} Rh6 {But, I after looking at my options and trying
to figure what to do, this is also what I would've played.} 22. Ba6 {But,
I'd be surprised to see this and would try to work my way from there. 
However, I'm more surprised when stronger players make the move then when
I see it from others, like someone of my strength.  As someone like me
knows how easy it is to overlook variations or miss something in them.
 And, the opponent can play something that you didn't expect.  How I remember
that is in some of my annotations where I anticipated the opponent making
the move.  So, I was ready to act on it, and sometimes, got a winning advantage.
 But, Ken asked something like, 'Joe what would you have done if...'  And,
that blank is a different move, and one that would've taken me off guard.
 It also, in some cases, would've given the opponent a winning advantage,
instead.  This is what keeping in mind since I am and was imagining that
other move being played against me, instead.} Rf8 {With that being said,
I would've played 22...Rd8 or 22...Re8.  In fact, I forgot something that
nuntar recently said in one of my annotations which is that it's not always
a good idea to centralize your R.  So, with that, I figured out that it
wouldn't have been here.  Having said that, I like Roland's move here since
it adds another defender to his Bf6+f7 pawn.} 23. d4 {I also like where
Ken's going with this move since it limits the mobility of Roland's Bf6.}
Be7 {Having said that, I would've responded with 23...Bg5 here.  But, I
quickly figured out that it's meaningless because of 24.Rf5 which is what
Ken plays, regardless.} 24. Rf5 {With that combined with what I noted earlier,
it's about where I'd go from here.} Bd6 {But, I would've considered 24...Bb4
(as I like where the B's placed better.)  On the other hand, I would've
played 24...Ba3 in an attempt to swarm Ken's K side.  For one thing, the
attack wouldn't be as easy for Ken to drive off.  Even so, I'd then be
trying to figure out what else I could do with my DSB and R's.  Keeping
that in mind, I like Roland's choice even better since h2 is attacked.
 And, Ken's next move is to be expected.} 25. h3 Ke6 {This, however, is
also what I also would've played.  In fact, done things like this in endgame
where you have a R, and I'd then use my K to attack it.  With other pawns,
I'd then switch my focus on trying to advance one of those with the monarch
adjacent to it.} 26. Bd3 {The difference is that rather then retreating,
Ken has and uses a piece, (the B) to protect.  It's an example of why I
don't exchange, unless I see a very good reason to do so.  } c5 {Similar
to before, I would've played 26...Rc8  But, I still like what Roland played
better.  As after 26...Rc8, at the very least, Ken could play 27.Rg5 with
the idea of 28.Rc1 followed by 29.Rg8 where the R is attacked again.  However,
with his coaching, something tells me that he would've done something much
worse, but I'm not sure what.  With this move, however, Roland is threatening
to break through with his pawn, starting with 27...Rc8 or play with either
27...cxd4, which doesn't do much, or 27...c4 with a pawn.  He might even
be threatening to combine the R on c8 with advancing his c pawn even more.}
27. Rg1 {I see the idea behind this move, though, as Ken is threatening
28.R1g5 with 2 attackers against h5.  This blends right into things that
I've overlooked since h5 pawn is only defended once.} Rg6 {With that in
mind, I would've seen it but later on.  Instead, I would've played 27...c4
in an attempt to get a passed pawn.  I know that it wouldn't work because
of 28.bxc5 bxc5 and after the B retreats, then I would play this move.
 However, I understand why Roland didn't play that because exchanging breaks
up the pawn structure.  From that I figured out that now wouldn't have
been the time to do so.    } 28. Rxg6+ {I would've been surprised to see
Ken wanting to exchange R's.  From that, I figured out that Roland's Rg6
was going to cause some real problems for white.  In addition, once they
exchange one of black's pawn will be under siege.} fxg6 29. Rg5 Rg8 {With
that being said, I would've protected and counterattacked with 29...Kf6
 But, I like Roland's choice more because he has a passed pawn that Ken
is trying to stop.  By playing this, his R supports the passer which is,
generally, what you want to do.  However, black forgot something that I
also would've forgot which is that g6 is attacked twice.  And, with that,
Roland is about to lose a pawn.  I also believe that this will cost him
the game.  What's important to remember is that at a higher level game,
it doesn't usually boil down to pieces since they don't just blunder a
piece.  Instead, it usually comes down to a pawn or two.  And, just that
is what generally affects the outcome, as elyhim emphasized.  That's also
why, as Coach Stockel puts it, as for his general advise, 'Don't give things
away.' } 30. Bxg6 Ke7 {I would've attacked here with 30...Kf6, and after
31.Rg2 or 31.Rg1, my next move would be 31...h4 to protect the pawn.  I
think that Roland played this to maintain the opposition and allow 32...Kf8.
 I could be wrong, but I think that this is the losing move by black because
of what Ken does next.  } 31. h4 {Meanwhile, Ken tries to prevent Roland
from protecting h5 by blocking it in.} cxd4 {I still would've played 31...Kf6
for the same reason that I would've done so on Roland's last move.  But,
I like this move a lot since he is trying to break through and get a passed
pawn.} 32. Bxh5 {! I thought that Ken would do this which is going to force
another series of exchanges which I know for certain will benefit white,
again since Ken will no longer have to worry about Roland's R.  As that's
what was hindering one of white's passers.  In fact, this is going to give
white a winning advantage now, whereas, it was unclear before.} Rxg5 33.
hxg5 dxe3 34. Kxe3 Bc5+ {And, with that, knowing that Ken is clearly better
now, this is also what I would've played to try and stay in.  It's not
just a check, but the monarch is on the same diagonal as the pawn.  Now,
Ken didn't like that word but would use it in, absolute, situations like
this.  Hope Chess.  As my Hope would be that white plays something 35.Kd2?
or 35.Kd3? allowing Roland to win back a pawn.} 35. Kf3 {But, I would've
expected something like this which keeps the pawn safe.  That's because
when you're up against a strong opponent like Ken you can Hope that he
or she blunders.  However, there's very little, and in most cases, no chance
that this will happen.  They calculate all the things that can create blunders
or what they have to do.  And, they do so to prevent counterplay.  This
is something that Ken emphasized at the end of either our first or second
training game together. } Ke6 {I would've played 35...Kf7 to get the opposition.
 But, Roland is still hoping that Ken goes wrong which is why he played
this.  As now, his passed pawn is guarded by the monarch.  The real question
is how long this will last because Ken knows what's going on.  And, I see
way to stop it with something like Ke2-d1, at some point.  In fact, Ken
will stop it on the next move in a different way then what I would think
of.} 36. Bg6 {As Ken played this to cover the h7-b1 diagonal which was
where Roland was planning to advance his d pawn, sooner or later.  And,
I think sooner.} Ke5 {With that being said, I also would've played.  But,
it would be to prevent Ken from playing 37.Kf4.  However, I think I know
why Roland played this, and I like his reason better as he's still trying
to do what he can with this d pawn.  } 37. Kg3 {And, Ken tries even more
to stop it since this threatens 37...f4 with a quick win which is why he
played this.  I'm familiar with where playing a pawn check with the monarch
right behind this would win.  I won a similar game against Carl or Tom
Walsh in the same manner during the endgame.  I learned how to do so by
studying a game just like that with Coach Stockel.} Kd4 {Not only is that
why Roland played, but I would've played the same thing and for the same
reason.  In addition, I'd be thinking about what else to do with d5.} 38.
f4 {That's why I would've tried to continue with 38...Kc3, and after 39.f5,
I'd answer with 39...d4.  The problem is that no matter how you toss the
dice, Ken will promote first which is why Roland resigned here.  In fact,
after 38...Kc3 39.f5 d4, I'd follow up with 40...d3  But, Ken would answer
by saccing the B with 41.Bxd3, and after 41...Kxd3, his f and g pawns are
free to move about and promote.  The reason being is due to white's solid
pawn chain on f4 and g5, whereas, Roland doesn't have a pawn chain except
for on b6 and a7 which aren't going to help since they're not passed. 
I would've continued a little longer.  But, once one of white's pawns reaches
the 7th rank, and the other reaches the 6th, that's when I'd throw in the
towel and for the same reason.  }  1-0

