[Event "OTB Tournament Game 5-Time Management"]
[Site "http://gameknot.com/"]
[Date "1/10/20"]
[Round "-"]
[White "Tom"]
[Black "Joe"]
[Result "0-1"]
[TimeControl "50/50"]

{In the past, sleep deprivation has been a problem in both work and chess.
 In fact, there were 2 incidents where I fell asleep on the job for a long
time a few years back.  This almost got me into trouble.  And, I would
be fired, if I were to do this again, to make a long story short.  During
those times, I had issues with being on blue ray lights too late at night,
either with TV and/or computer.  Thus, I got into energy drinks and kept
drinking them when I felt sleepy on and off for 2-3 years.  But, I had
to stop because it was driving the managers crazy.  Then, when I came across
and article, '6 myths about sleep to stop believing' I realized what else
I was doing wrong.  That was getting too relaxed and thinking that I didn't
have to worry about when to go bed if I could sleep later.  What I learned
is that one should maintain the same schedule, even when, you can sleep
later.  After realizing where I had to change my ways to keep my job, I
realized that these mistakes with time management were also affecting my
chess.  Bhidragon mentioned about our past training games before our last
game which was rated.  And, he mentioned the overall picture and seeing
the entire board.  Having such a major with sleep deprivation, I didn't
do it, as I was too stubborn and narrowminded.  Not only that, but I was
also forgetting the lessons in our first training game.  That is, can you
be checked, and if so, how serious?  Can you get mated?  And, is there
an attacked piece (which ION calls one side movers)?  So, for me, the overall
picture was getting more sleep through better time management.  And, in
doing so, I didn't forget the basics which I also teach my students, had
an open mind, and started looking at everything on the board.  This is
how it should be.  That helped me win with this game with plenty of time
left.  In fact, I still had 39 minutes left, when all was said and done.}
1. c4 {Since I was white the last time, I had to play as black.  Interestingly
enough, Jack remembered that I played Tom, but he wanted to know how many
games.  And, if it was just one, which color.  So, I did the same thing
that I do for an annotation by going over my notes.  In other words, I
sort of, had to go over the score, but not with how many wins, etc.  But,
for me, this score wasn't even about wins, but just the amount of games,
and then who it was against and which color.  That's when I figured it
out, and Tom defeated me the last time as black.  Interestingly enough,
I know Tom, and when I play as black, he often plays the KPO.  But, this
time, he opted for the English Opening.} e5 {I hate to say it, but if I
didn't study some of fiercequeen's annotations involving the English Opening,
I wouldn't have known what else to do besides this move.  Of course, before
that, I learned from ION, that this is, indeed, the most common response
for the reason that I thought which is due to it being the Reverse Sicilian.
 But, then where else do you go?  Well, I was thinking in terms of what
else goes into a normal Sicilian and what I remembered from, 'Bonnie' as
black.} 2. e4 Nf6 {As this is how fiercequeen responded.  Had I not studied
that, however, I would've played this anyhow as it not only starts to develop,
but e5 is attacked.  But, I'll hold off on taking the pawn for a short
while.} 3. Nc3 {Defending and continuing to develop.} Bb4 {So, I go right
after the N.  My idea is to exchange, as my thinking was winning a pawn.
 It was later that I realized that this shouldn't have worked.  Right now
it doesn't, but there's a variation that I forgot about until we exchanged
on c3 which was the only reason why I went forward with it, after 4.a3.
 Otherwise, I would've retreated with 4...Bc5.} 4. a3 Bxc3 5. bxc3 {As
I was thinking in terms of 5...Nxe4?! and had almost played it.  Then I
remember some variations where you attack the e file, as I noted in previous
annotations.  But, it wouldn't have worked in those other annotations,
but it would here.  And, it's based on what Coach Stockel taught me a long
while back, and he wasn't wrong here.  On the other hand, I applied it
in the wrong context, but that's not so here.  Without the sleep, I might've
forgotten it.  Having said that, I remembered that 5...Nxe4 allows 6.Qe2
(this time around).  In order to avoid losing a piece, I have to retreat
my Ne4 which would not only hand back a pawn, but I would lose my right
to castle.  That is, even if I were to exchange Q's which is something
that didn't occur.  The only way around it would be to delay it.  But,
I wouldn't have done it anyway.  By delay castling, I mean move the K and
R over in a few moves, as opposed to, one.  So, I'd be talking what happens
after 6.Qe2 Nf6 Then 7.Qxe5+ Qe7 8.Qxe7+ Kxe7, with a later idea of ...Rh8-e8,
followed by ...Kf8, …'at some point', as charleshiggie puts it.  On the
other hand, I would not be happy exchanging Q's there because similar to
Ken, I'm thinking about what my Queen could, potentially do later on.}
O-O {Therefore, instead of going into all of the variations or just leaving
the K out there and not exchanging, I decide to castle first.  As this
move makes me feel comfortable about taking on e4.  The reason being is
that if white responds with Qe2 to win back a pawn, my K is already where
it should be.  And, I'm not forced to exchange anything. } 6. a4 {Creating
more mobility for his Bc1.  But, I'm about to take, as noted earlier.}
Nxe4 7. d3 {? But, this is a mistake which loses a pawn.  The irony is
that I almost made a blunder which would've lost a piece.  And, that would've
been an example of what Jack calls, 'a 2 second move'.  Maybe, Tom thought
that this won back a pawn, but best for Tom would've been 7.Qe2 which would've
done just that.} Nf6 {As noted a move ago, this is where I almost blundered
which would've given Tom the advantage, instead.  The reason being is that
the only other move that I considered besides this was 7...Nxc3??  In fact,
this is what I almost played.  But, I then saw what comes after which would've
been 8.Qc2, trapping my N.  Had I not stayed on the same schedule, this
would've happened as it has before.  And, the irony is that I did this
for work, but there's also chain reaction or chain of events where one
things leads to another.  This is an example.} 8. Ba3 {Continuing his development
and going after my R.  I wouldn't see the point if Tom was just attacking,
his B is more mobile here then on b2.} Re8 9. Qc2 {Completing his development
on the Q side.  And, I would see the point, if Tom were to castle long,
but he didn't.  Therefore, as far as, I'm concerned, his Q is out before
completing his development for no good reason since I don't have an immediate
threat against him.  But, by doing this, I will not try to punish him for
lack of development which will work this time around.  Even if I couldn't
win material, I would've opted for gain of either a tempo or two tempii.}
d6 {So, I start off with this move, as my plan isn't just to develop. 
But, my aim is to pin Tom's d3 pawn since his Q is on the same diagonal.
 And, despite continuing with his development, Tom's next move allows that.
} 10. Nf3 Bf5 11. Be2 {? Continuing with his development and preparing
to castle, but this I thought was the losing blunder.  I didn't realize
this, at the time until my next move.  Having said that, best was to castle
long because of what I'm about to do next which will still pick up another
pawn, to say the least.  And, it's worth noting that I also would've overlooked
my next move without the sleep.  } e4 12. Nd4 exd3 13. Qd2 dxe2 {Were it
not for his N on d4, I would've captured and placed him in check with my
Re8, instead, as that would've also gotten his Q.  However, I assumed that
I was now an entire piece up.  And, I know why, as I didn't overlook what
Tom could've done.  But, I had Ghost Vision thinking that, somehow, he
was down by an additional piece then what I had calculated.  And, that's
because I visualized another B, from the earlier fork.} 14. Nxe2 {?? Having
said that, this was the losing move by Tom.  As complicated as the position
is for him, 14.Nxf5 which would've gotten a piece back right away.  And,
even though in theory, I'd still win, this would be very hard for me. 
Even being well rested, there's a good chance that I'd go wrong somewhere
which would allow a swindle.  Depending on how complicated things would
get, being that there's so much time left, there's a slight possibility
that I'd lose on time.  But, there's a better chance that I'd miscalculate
and allow a draw with an advantage with something like a stalemate or draw
by rep.  When we get real complicated and complex, that's where I miscalculate,
and I know that this is even where really experienced players would do
this as well.  Having said that, this not only leaves him more then a piece
down without anything in return, but his Ne2 is tied down which is going
to allow me to win it starting on my next move.} Qe7 {The idea being is
that keeping in mind that his N's pinned, I used a similar strategy against
Tom that Ken used against me in our second training game.  In that training
game, I had an attacked piece defended once, so Ken brought in a second
attacker which won it.  It's a very similar story here because his Ne7
was attacked once and defended twice.  So, I brought in a second attacker
to keep not just his N, but Q and K all tied down.  Thus, even if he kept
it the way it was to try to avoid losing material; it's only a matter of
time before I'd be able to launch a devastating on his K side as I saw
with bhidragon.  And, I was already starting to think of a strategy to
do that.} 15. O-O {But, this move made things much easier for me since
I'll just grab it, immediately.} Qxe2 16. Qd5 {Trying to avoid liquidation,
but this allows me to grab his Q.  Right before I moved, Tom realized what
he had done, and wanted to take the move back.  I did not do it, but were
this is a casual game, I would've allowed to go back.  However, we, more
or less, have to follow tournament rules in Jack's tournaments since it's
practice for the real world.} Nxd5 {And, once I played this, Tom resigned.
 Somewhere either by the middle or towards the end of the game; Master
Nathan came in and was surprised at how well I played just from what he
saw.  I told him that, unlike with previous games, including tournaments,
I was well rested and had adequate sleep the night before.   And, that
I did this by managing my time properly and staying on the same schedule.
 And, I said that, ironically, I'm just doing this to stay awake at work
to avoid getting fired for sleeping on the job.  Nathan responded by saying,
'Hmm.  That sounds right.'}  0-1

