[Event "OTB WTW Game"]
[Site "http://gameknot.com/"]
[Date ""]
[Round "-"]
[White "Joe"]
[Black "Jack"]
[Result "0-1"]

{This was my first time at chess club in over a month.  Before this, I
worked a little earlier, and that was, in an attempt to try to resolve
my issue of sleep deprivation.  That is, so that I wouldn't get fired or
do something else that would drive them crazy.  The main reason, however,
is because I was getting over a flu and wouldn't have come anyway.  That's
why I didn't say anything about the earlier then usual schedule until that
week since I had, pretty much, made a full recovery.  I mentioned about
falling asleep on the job twice, despite having been spoken to.  And, that
caused a ton of problems since I made the company angry with me which is
why they're bothering the actual manager and his assistant daily.  If that's
not bad enough, I kept drinking energy drinks for 2.5 years despite it
bothering the assistant manager which I knew all along.  And, that was
with a bad attitude, as well.  I stopped when I noticed actually being
hyper and finding out that it was starting to bother the actual boss. 
Then, on February 6th, we get into destruction of property to avoid getting
fired since I was sleepy.  In this instance, I inadvertently, destroyed
something, a ceramic 'XOXO' decoration on it and caused a safety hazard.
 Although I wasn't directly spoken to, this was also something that my
boss and job coach were both trying to prevent.  That was from night after
night of too much stress, for almost 2 weeks.  My concern was that someonelse
would get in trouble or fired for the same issue, which is the main reason
that I raised public awareness, although affecting ones game was also a
factor.  Having said that, chess helped me keep my job since I never gave
up hope, just like when your position looks hopeless.  With all of these
things, the person that I got involved with who helped me keep a job and,
therefore, viewed as a job and chess coach, Mercey Livingston, blocked
me on her fan page, recently.  And, that's due to the problems that I caused
which could've been prevented.  But, straightening out by preventing that
kind of tiredness means writing things down.  Before, it was educating
people on the importance of getting enough sleep in chess and at work.
 And, it was a matter of time before I was going to annotate this game
for Joann's club.  But, unlike the other things that I mentioned in my
club and chess.com, this particular game started interfering with my sleep
on Saturday night.  As I either had trouble falling asleep or going back
to sleep for 30-45 minutes.  At first, I thought it was being blocked until
I kept going back to, mainly, the final position.  That caused a moderate
amount of tiredness at work, today, so March 23rd, despite having it behind
me the night after, March 22nd.  So, I decided to get this over with by
annotating this game, right here and now.  } 1. e4 {So, I started off with
my usual.} e5 {As does Jack.  Sometimes, he'll play the Sicilian, but this
is his usual.  And, I know that, since it's with Jack, he'll allow me to
play the Italian Opening.} 2. Nf3 Nc6 3. Bc4 Be7 {I wasn't sure how Jack
would answer.  But, I wasn't surprised to see this move played.} 4. O-O
{But, I was ready to castle right away.  Afterall, why not?  The idea is
that, as ION mentioned before, it's usually to one's benefit to castle
right away.} Nf6 {Jack's also preparing to do the same thing.} 5. Ng5 {I'm
so used to making these kind of threats.  At first, I thought that it was
unsound, but this coach mentioned that it's standard.  And, although he
could be wrong, he said that making this kind of threat is generally what
GM's now play in the Guaco Piano.  And, that makes it a good move.  My
only question is how analyzed is it really since he mentioned to just play
moves that are studied by masters and GM's.  The only problem there is
that he was vagued because that made me too critical of openings that I
didn't think were analyzed, such as Nimzovich-Larsen Attack.  And, then
he mentioned that after the Scandinavian Defense, 1.e4 d5 2.e5 was best
and he advised against 2.exd5  But, I agree with Michael that 2.exd5 is
best and 2.e5?! is just dubious.  He also rightly pointed out that Jack
isn't always correct, and I discovered that when, in contrast to what I
learned with Ken, Jack told me to exchange whenever possible against stronger
players.  So, my question will always be if he's correct or not.  I assume
that this is good and just go by gut instinct.  But, I'm also thinking
that it might not be great since I could've developed with something like
5.Nc3} O-O {This is a great move, and unlike what I was told or did before,
I was not going to exchange on f7.  And, that's after what happened the
last time, against the same coach.} 6. Nc3 {Meanwhile, I continue developing.}
h6 {As I've seen before, Jack doesn't like my N here.} 7. Nf3 d6 8. h3
{I didn't care too much about 8...Ng4, but I played this to stop 8...Bg4.
 As I don't enjoy being pinned.} a6 {Jack's thinking along a similar way.
 And, he was right because I was planning to play 9.Nb5  So, I come up
with some other idea.} 9. Re1 {By centralizing my R.} Na5 {Wanting my B.
} 10. Be2 {And, in case you're wondering, I considered allowing an exchange
with 10.b3  But, I didn't feel comfortable doing so now, and I'd also wind
up with doubled pawns.  The main reason being is that if Jack wants it,
then it's more mobile, and therefore, worth more then his Na5.} b5 {It
used to take me a while to figure something out like this.  And, sleep
deprivation also would've caused me to overlook it.  So, doing a better
job in getting enough sleep, I realized why Jack played this.  As at the
time, I'd see it as pointless, but I figured out that if he succeeds in
playing 10...b4, I'd lose material.  I actually thought my N would be gone,
but even after 11.Nd5, I'd be down a pawn, and a very important one, at
that since it's in the center.} 11. b4 {So, I put a stop to Jack's plan
by hitting his N.} Nc6 12. Ba3 {I was expecting that counterattack and
ready to defend.} Bb7 {Completing his fianchetto and development.} 13.
Nh4 {?? Although I didn't think about this position when I was trying to
sleep, it was the cornerstone to it.  I thought nothing of Jack's Be7 due
to the interference with his Nf6.  Well, that was underestimated, and this
is a blunder that'll cost material starting with his next move.} Nxe4 14.
Nxe4 Bxh4 15. g3 {That's why I'm starting to think about playing the man,
as opposed to, the board.} Be7 16. Bh5 {That's why I begin to think about
my game with bhidragon.  As I'm seeing if there's a way that I can overpower
Jack's monarch.  My plan was to play Qg4 and then, eventually, Ng6 with
perhaps, a N sac to expose his K.  From then, I'd continue with Qxg6 and
think about where the B and Q could go.  Perhaps, it would even be to see
if I'd have a mate.  But, Jack's next move stops all of that.} Qd7 17.
Bg4 {?? That's why I attack his Q.  Little did I realize that I'd walk
into a fork.  That will leave me the equivalent to an entire piece down
which is a losing proposition.} f5 18. Bxf5 Qxf5 19. g4 {This is why I'm
thinking more of play the man.  That's why I went on the offense.} Qf4
20. Re2 {? Preparing to play Qe1 later on.  Little did I realize that this
is another mistake.  I thought that his next move was, but I overlooked
the masked battery here.} Nxb4 21. Bxb4 Bxe4 22. Qe1 {Seeing if I can get
something back by attacking twice.} Bb7 {Not surprisingly, Jack gets out
of it.} 23. a3 {?? Trying to open up a file for the other R.  But, I forgot
about his Bb7 which will cover the same diagonal as the Q.  And, it's the
final position that will lead to mate.  23.f3 was needed, but Jack would
still be winning, but there would be more for me to fight for.} Qf3 {Getting
ready for the kill.  I didn't realize here, but no matter what I do, it's
mate.  I see why it is, though since I saw a very similar pattern with
Fred, the Master Mater.  } 24. d3 Qg2# {The blunders that I made were being,
somewhat, raw to chess.  This only means that it was the first real, as
opposed to, consultation game, in over a month.  When you first do something
in a while, mistakes are bound to happen.  And, it might happen again,
next time, as the place where Jack's club is run is closed due to the Covid19
panic.  But, this final position is what kept me up on Saturday night.
 I tried to ignore it and just go to sleep, but the position, itself, kept
popping up in my head.  I think the reason why is because it's very similar
to my first real WTW game with easy19, which I lost.  That's why I'm glad
to, finally, have it put behind me with this annotation.}  0-1

