[Event "OTB Tournament Game 3"]
[Site "http://gameknot.com/"]
[Date "11/15/18"]
[Round "-"]
[White "Joe"]
[Black "Tom"]
[Result "0-1"]
[TimeControl "45/45"]

{This was my third tournament game, and it was against someone who, temporarely
left Jack's club.  That's why I thought that his tournaments had come to
an end since, up until recently, there wasn't enough participation to keep
it going.  I'm glad to see it back, but when it first happened, during
the first game, I wasn't used to the tournament.  And, on top of it, it
was the second time that I started notating with positions in first.  In
previous tournaments, I required the position to be set up the way I liked
in each of my tournaments.  So that, it's what we're used to where white's
set up on the 1st and 2nd ranks, and black's set up on the 7th and 8th
ranks.  One day, I watched someone do it in reverse, so where white's on
the 7th and 8th rank.  And, black is on the 1st and 2nd rank.  That person
was someone who isn't there often due to her school schedule, one of Jack's
students whose 16 or 17 named Kavyah who I played against twice.  I said
something when I saw her due do it, as I was impressed.  And, she said
that it wasn't easy, but I was determined to learn, in case Jack's tournaments
were to come back.  As that way, I wouldn't need to change the board if
the position was in the way that I wasn't used to.  And, this is the first
time where I was able to notate a game with the start up position in reverse
of what I'm used to, without the position becoming too corrupt for an annotation.
 Now, I played a casual game against Ted, but when it ended, about 45 minutes
after chess club started, Tom and I played this game to continue with the
tournament.  And, sometimes, we stay after the club's supposed to end,
and the person in charge of the place where chess club runs, doesn't mind.
 But, I had to be at work later that day, at 14:00, which means that we
had to end on time, and that's also had to take away 5 minutes from both
sides since it's usually a 50/50 time control.  Worried that we'd have
to adjourn before finishing, I made a terrible and obvious blunder with
an oversight early on that lost an entire piece and the game.  From that
point on, I had no way back, even after winning back a piece. } 1. e4 {So,
I start off with my usual.  And, with all but this opponent, I don't know
what they do next.  But, Tom's next move is to be expected since he continues
with the KPG, after which, he enables me to play the Italian Opening.}
e5 2. Nf3 Nc6 3. Bc4 d6 {I was hoping that Tom would play 3...Nf6 to allow
4.Ng5.  It's right here that I don't know what he'll do next which is typical
once I've played what I'm used to.  But, after this move, I decide that
it's time to castle, right then and there.} 4. O-O Be6 {?! Continuing with
his development, but it's quite risky since this should expose his K. 
Maybe, Tom was also concerned about not finishing.  But, it's about to
get the best of me.  As I'm about to make a terrible blunder, and it's
something that bhidragon and I discussed during our training.  It's known
as the AP assessment, and AP means the Attacked Piece as a very basic rule
that I forgot.  And, without using that term, I emphasize the same point
to Erika in one of her annotations.} 5. Nc3 {?? As I play this to continue
with my development, and Tom was, rightfully surprised that I made such
a blunder.  In fact, this was like a training game with Mariann where she
blundered a piece, but instead I took a pawn.  And, that was the first
time that I met kenneth_fiore_3.  In fact, it's the very first thing that
Ken said to me when I was distracted was, 'Distraction is not a sufficient
excuse for a terrible move. Take your time and play slower or in a quieter
part of your club.'  It wasn't noisy, this time around, but he's correct
about everything.  That's especially since Jack emphasized the importance
of playing slowly and taking your time and yelled at Carl for not doing
it and me at an earlier time for the same reason.  And, yet, the problem
is for me the same which is why I made that, 'two second move', as Jack
calls.  As it was caused by an internal distraction caused by the Fight
or Flight reaction that we'd have to adjourn and not be able to finish.
 Had it not been for that, I would've answered with 5.Bxe6+ for the reason
that I emphasize to my students about how critical the f square is.  As
Tom's K side pawn structure will be ruined.  Now, I'll be looking to get
a piece back which will, eventually, happen but white is lost, anyhow.
 As this is the losing move as I'll have no way back in the game.  And,
from this, I learned what to do, in the future because if something like
that is to happen, and we're to have to adjurn, I'll bother Nathan Resika.
 As I'll push him to take a picture of the position on his iPhone, so that,
we could resume the tournament game, in the future.  That will be to prevent
something like this reoccurring.  } Bxc4 6. d3 {Thinking about how to get
back a piece and trying to get ahead in development, I play this.  My goal,
although it won't work, is to try and get back in the game.} Be6 7. Ng5
{And, with that, I try to intimidate him.  Although I wouldn't normally
do this, I felt that I had a good enough reason to liquidate while behind
which would be to expose his K.  As I thought that I could pull a swindle
by doing this since he's behind in development.  I'm also thinking in some
similar terms to what Loyd thought.  The reason being is that when he still
came to club, and we did a tournament, he blundered a piece early on, similar
to me.  But, then I went wrong by falling behind in development and not
getting the pieces out on time.  This allowed him to pull a swindle and
win an, otherwise, a hopelessly lost game.  That was until he made a very
similar blunder against me early on with a piece, and then I put a stop
to his swindle attempt by exchanging.  So, that's my strategy, as even
though it's beneficial to him, my goal is to pull a swindle by exposing
his K.  } a6 8. Nxe6 {Of course, that would've been better by my fifth
move, to prevent this from being liquidation.  But, now it's too late and
the timing is off because this makes things easier for Tom.  Even with
an exposed K, my N was more active then his B which didn't occur to me.}
fxe6 9. Qh5+ {As I was thinking in terms of this move.  I was trying to
treat it, as though, he played something like the Domiano's Defense.  But,
in this case, it's not due to forking and winning a R after 9...g6.} g6
10. Qg4 {Instead, I was thinking in terms of this move since I was trying
to take advantage of his e6 pawn.} Nd4 {And, I wasn't surprised that Tom
saw this.  But, he defended in a way that I didn't expect, as I anticipated
10...Qe7.  This, however, is stronger as he's targeting c2.} 11. Bg5 {So,
I counterattack, as the idea now is to play the man, as opposed to the
board.  That's something that I learned from ION.  And, he said that this
is what you do when you're behind and/or losing like this.} Nf6 {Similar
to before, I had anticipated 11...Be7.  And, in fact, that would've been
best as I'd be forced to liquidate B's, in order to avoid losing c2.  Not
only would that have favored him, for the known reason about me being behind.
 But, my Bg5 is more active and mobile then his Bf8.} 12. Rac1 {Protecting
c2, and trying to maintain pressure on Tom's Q side by leaving his Nf6
pinned.  But, better was to defend with 12.Qd1.  I overlooked, but this
enables Tom force further liquidation which took me off guard.  As I forgot
that he could take my Q first due to where it's placed and Q is located.
 So, this was Tunnel vision as I was fixated on c2, but forgot about what's
going on with my Q.} Nxg4 13. Bxd8 Ne2+ 14. Nxe2 Rxd8 15. h3 {That's why
I start going back on the offense.  } Nf6 16. d4 {? I developed the wrong
attitude which is that Tom is not getting anywhere with me now.  But, that's
not so, as I was thinking in terms of what happens after 16...exd4, with
which, I'd target his e6 pawn with 17.Nxd4.  But, with another episode
of Tunnel Vision, I forgot that he could, and will take, with his Nf6,
winning another pawn.} Nxe4 17. f3 {Still targeting his N.} Bh6 {But, similar
to me, Tom puts a stop to it by counterattacking.} 18. Rcd1 Be3+ {I don't
know what Tom gets out of placing me in check, but I go with the flow.}
19. Kh2 Ng5 20. Rd3 {Finding his check pointless, I go right after Tom's
B which was pointless, in it of itself since he'll win another pawn.  Better
was 20.c3, and this is where I begin to figure out that I have no way back.
 But, I'm still hoping that Tom blunders and allows me to pull, an unlikely,
swindle.} Bxd4 21. f4 {That is why I played this, as I'm hoping that Tom
gets greedy and takes on f4.  Not surprisingly, he doesn't take the back
but will defend by moving his Ng5.} Ne4 22. c3 {That's why I went after
his B, instead.} Nc5 {And, I was ready to grab his B which I would've done,
had my Rd3 not been attacked.   When I defend, my attitude towards Tom
is, what are you going to do now.  But, that question is really for me
due to what kind of shape I'm in.  However, I'm still hoping for that swindle
because of what's about to happen.} 23. Rdd1 Be3 24. g3 {And, that is why
I play this move.  As I know that if I try to trap his Be3 right away with
24.Rf3, he can and will protect by recapturing on f3, and I wanted to give
his B no way out.} exf4 25. gxf4 O-O 26. Rf3 {And, upon knowing that I
could trap now, I played the move at once.  As I'm about to win back a
piece, but the problem is that, it's in exchange, for a pawn.  And, with
that, I'm still down the equivalent to an entire piece which is not enough
compensation.} Bxf4+ 27. Rxf4 {27.Nxf4 also came into consideration, but
I didn't want to leave my N pinned.} e5 {And, with this attack, I considered
27.Rg4 or 27.Rh4 but quickly figured out that Tom would fork and win another
piece with 28.Rf2+  Thus, I figured out that I had no choice but to further
liquidate which exacerbates my position.  At this point, I was almost ready
to resign, but having gotten something back, I play on for a little longer.
 If, however, this were a casual game, I would've already resigned, but
tournaments are another thing.  In fact, in a different game Jack played
on, as opposed to, resigning for the same reason.  That was, until he realized
that he's dead lost which was, against I believe Carl.} 28. Rxf8+ Rxf8
29. Ng3 {So, I start getting my out to protect and seeing what I could
do with it.} Rf2+ {But, with this move, Tom's letting me know that, it's
too little too late.  As he's about to win another pawn.} 30. Kg1 Rxb2
31. a3 {Seeing that my a pawn was attacked, in a very last effort, I play
this.  But, I shortly realize that I, definitely, have no way out.  And,
it's only a matter of time before I resign.  In fact, it's about to happen
because I have isolated pawns that are of no use since they're not passed.
But, Tom, on the other hand, has a passed pawn.  With 4 pawns up and the
passer on e5, and his pawns connected with a solid pawn chain d6 and c7
he'll get more.  Not only that, but he's got more time then me.} Rb3 {And,
with this move, I resigned, at once.  I overlooked it for a short while
but quickly realize, in about 10 seconds, that I'm in a fork.  And, he's
going to win a pawn.  Plus, I, literally have, half the amount of time
as he has 24 minutes left, whereas, I only have 12.  Before I time out,
he'll advance and will promote.  Not only that, but it's already 11:45
which only gives me 15 minutes before I have to leave, eat lunch, and get
ready for work.  And, I was not going to adjourn with this position, I
waved the towel.  Tom said that it was interesting game, and overall, I
played well except for that blunder early.  And, he was also surprised
about that.  But, for a change, I have to disagree with Tom due to the
same blunder being a beginner mistake.  That to me made it not a good game,
and I would've stood a chance were it someone weaker then me.  On the other
hand, everyone in this tournament, are, at the very least, my same strength
which is why they start off with the same time control as me.  And, then
you have the teachers who get less time.  What I learned, which is recent
is that Master Nathan Resika can take a picture with his iPhone.  And,
what will be needed is to let things go and not worry about adjournment.
 For, if it does wind up happening, Nathan will just have to take a picture
of the position, so that, we could continue.  That's, especially since,
some of the same players that I play in the tournament are in the middle
of a different game when I arrive, and yet, the Jack's tourney needs to
continue.}  0-1

